now a spokesperson for the Israeli
government says Israel is ready to stop
its war on Gaza to return captives
however prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has reiterated that the goals
of the war remain unchanged and that he
wants to see Hamas destroyed this comes
after US President Joe Biden presented a
three-phase ceasefire plan on Friday
with the first phase entailing a limited
release of captives from Gaza Israel has
banned aljazera from reporting from
there so we're now going to speak to
Imran Khan or correspondent he's joining
us from the Jordanian Capital Aman first
of all Imran tell us a little bit more
about what we've been hearing from
Netanyahu and his
government well it began as a series of
leaks in a parliamentary meeting a
concent meeting that was taking place
where we heard that the Prime Minister
was willing to talk about phase one of
that phase uh three-phased ceasefire
deal he was willing to commit to that
then there was a video recording of the
Prime Minister he says this we are
working in countless ways to bring the
abductees back I think about them all
the time for the sake of their families
and their suffering that is why we have
come a long way to bring them back but
in the course of this work we have
preserved the goals of the war above all
the elimination of Hamas we insist that
we complete this and that this is part
of the trend it is not something I'm
adding now it's not something I'm adding
because I was under pressure in the
Coalition it's something we unanimously
agreed upon in the war council so what
this means is that the war council has
agreed that they'll take a look at phase
one of the ceasefire deal they'll agree
to phase one now phase one is an initial
six week ceasefire it involves the
release of captives uh including women
and the elderly from the Gaza Strip
exchange of hundreds of Palestinian
prisoners while also getting
humanitarian Aid into the strip it also
includes and this is going to be a
problem uh for the Israeli military uh a
full and complete uh ceasefire as well
as the withdrawal of Israeli forces from
Gaza if they've agreed to that it means
that now there's a technical process
that takes place Israel has to present
this to the caterie and Egyptian
mediators the Egyptian mediators and
Ceres have to take this to Hamas and get
their response now when President Joe
Biden gave his initial three-phase
proposal Hamas reacted very positively
uh towards that so it's now up to Hamas
to see uh to look at the deal to look at
the details of this deal and to see if
they can agree to phase one Prim
Benjamin Netanyahu May well be hoping
that by putting it over to Hamas that
Hamas May well have a problem with this
because their position hasn't change
they want a permanent ceasefire and
therefore it doesn't become his fault
anymore that the ceas deal didn't go
through it could well be a number of
other things a lot of speculation going
around right now but what we do know is
simply this that perhaps phase one of
the ceasefire deal is something the
Israelis May well be willing to put to
the Qatari and Egyption mediators yes
because we've got Netanyahu talking
about pressure within his Coalition how
fragile is his government when you've
got the ultra nationalists threatening
to withdraw should he accept the
ceasefire deal
well already the Finance Minister Beth
Del smotrich is talking with his
spiritual leaders remember this is a
very religious person who is also a very
far right uh Minister within the
government so he's taking advice from
his followers whether he should actually
quit the government it'll only take him
or um itar benav the national security
minister to leave they'll probably both
leave together if and it is a big if if
they decide to leave but Netanyahu has
always had the secret card here he knows
that this position of uh Power for those
fing far rightwing ministers has never
actually happened uh before so they may
need to stay in the government just to
remain in power and have a say of things
that really mean something to them so
he's got that going for him as well he
also knows that he can probably resist
the ter uh the power challenges from
Benny Gans for example the war minister
from y glant the defense minister
because he knows he has uh those
far-right ministers who want to support
him but but and it is a big it is a butt
but it is a significant butt uh those
farite ministers are now looking at
whether they can try and get another
Coalition going or whether they can use
the threat of quitting uh to try and
force uh Netanyahu into a corner okay
Imran Khan joining us there from Aman
thanks very much Imran and a reminder
again that the Israeli government has
banned Al jazer so we are reporting from
outside of
Israel make sure to subscribe our
channel to get the latest news from alaz